Previously on Fringe...
We have been looking for you
and your friends.
Who's the little girl?
Who's the little
blonde girl?
If you are watching this,
then you know
that the Observers
have invaded.
I must have ambered it.
I need a proper laser.
Could you make one?
Don't you wear a necklace?
We just need the silver
for solder.
Thank you.
If you've found this tape,
you've retrieved it
from amber.
Got it.
You must recover each tape
to retrieve
all the parts of the plan.
This plan can rid the world
of the Observers.
You are humanity's
only hope!
Nah, he don't think
nothing about it.
It should only probably
take a few hours.
He don't give me the money,
he's gonna know about it.
I'll tell you that.
Appreciate the help.
Ah, he's got the kids
and all, you know?
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Greetings.
Looking to barter?
No.
Not tonight.
"If you want to make God laugh,
tell him your plan."
It's been there
for a while.
Guess it hits
a little close to home.
Yeah.
Man...
I had one of these
when I was a kid.
I'll give you
a good deal, man.
Actually, what I'm
looking for is a--
This is what
you are looking for.
Yup.
That's it.
It will look good
on her,
the young, blonde woman.
What is baseball?
Excuse me?
You were thinking
of the Red Sox.
What is baseball?
It's a sport--
or was anyway.
How much?
What do you want to give I
for that?
I am upsetting you.
You do not like
to be read.
Who's upset?
I got nothing to hide.
What's to be upset about?
That take care of it?
Blood clot, man.
I haven't seen one
of these in years.
You're trying to confuse me.
I don't know what
you're talking about, pal.
Who is the young, blonde woman?
You are protecting her.
Are you sure?
Do you know what this is worth?
Yeah.
Keep the change.
My papers.
What are you doing out so late?
We have our papers right there.
Is this the only paperwork
you have?
There is something wrong.
Detain him.
Freeze!
Stop right there!
Now!
He's down there.
The last time
I went under,
I got bit by a rat.
He is a rat.
Bite him back.
Aah!
♪ Fringe 5x04 ♪
The Bullet That Saved the World
Original Air Date on October 26, 2012
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
♪
Is that a real gun?
Where am I?
You came out
of that storm drain.
There.
You're bleeding.
♪ ♪
Come to mama.
How does
this one look?
A little less warped
than the others.
Hopefully it'll play better.
It took hours.
Walter, this is about as fast
as we can go
without too much
heat damage.
Fast as a snail.
At this rate,
we will save the world
in another 21 years.
I'm gonna clean this up.
And you know how old
that will make me.
I don't even want
to do that math.
Peter, what happened?
It's--it's all right.
It's just superficial.
I was trying
to get gas for the wagon.
I got read
by an Observer.
He pulled thoughts
out of my head
like cards out of a deck.
What did he get from you?
He did get
an image of you.
But at this point you're as much
a fugitive as the rest of us,
so, unless you can think of a
reason why that would hurt us--
Did he give any indication
that he pulled anything else?
No.
I did what I'm supposed
to do, keep
a bunch of random thoughts
in my head,
but then he knew
I was doing that too,
so I just got out of there.
These guys,
they out-move us,
they out-think us.
They're always
two steps ahead.
More, if they focus.
I don't know
how we're gonna beat 'em.
We beat them
one by one.
Instinctively,
you did the right thing.
You just have to create
a labyrinth of planned thoughts,
keep them preoccupied.
Yeah.
Trying to block
that reading was exhausting.
I couldn't do it.
It's impossible.
It's not impossible.
I've taught others.
It just takes
a really long time.
Well, teach me.
I plan on it.
I'm teaching you all.
In the meantime,
I want you to consider this
a down payment
on my first lesson.
You had to give up
your necklace
so we could work
on the laser.
I wanted to make sure
you got a new one.
Thank you.
Worth every bump
and bruise, kiddo.
Well, you know
the expression.
No good deed
goes unpunished.
Living proof.
You wanted to see me?
You do not like
to be read.
Who's upset?
What's there
to be upset about?
I got nothing to hide.
This is what he purchased--
an alloy of gold
and other metals,
minerals, argentite,
and chlorargyrite.
What is its purpose?
Its purpose?
You wear it.
You put it
around your neck.
He is a fugitive.
Why put oneself at risk
in this quadrant
for something
so unexceptional?
These fugitives are confident
enough to walk freely.
I think they receive
information.
The resistance
is protecting them.
You mean
they're being tipped off?
To our movements,
yes.
Two days ago, one of the men
in your division
failed a security test.
I believe he
is with the resistance.
I think you will be able
to get information
about the fugitives
through him.
Why didn't you tell me
about the security fail?
I could ask you
the same question.
I didn't know
about it.
That is my point.
I'll look into it.
Welcome to tape two
of my plan
to defeat the Observers.
Before we begin,
first and foremost,
you must accept
the reversibility
of all phenomena...
Particles have their speeds
reversed,
then the changes--
found a measurable effect.
Let me be crystal clear--
understanding
of these scientific concepts,
we will not be fighting
in the same field.
These are the plans that we
must follow to the letter--
imperative
that these plans be retrieved.
Astrid, it's impossible to tell
what he's talking about.
This is as clear
as I can get it.
I have hidden them as I would
my most prized possession.
Funny story actually.
When I was a boy,
my mother would take me
on what she called
Manhattan mystery tours.
We would catch the first train
that came to the station,
and then we would venture
into the city...
And get off at the first--
I'll never forget--
inspirational.
The tape is ripped.
It got caught
on a fleck of amber.
I've heard enough.
I know where the tube is.
- You do?
- Mm.
The subway platform
beneath Newark Penn Station
in the wall.
How do you know that?
Because, as a boy,
my most prized possession
was my collection
of detective comics.
And, like everyone,
I was terrified
that the pinkos
would attack.
So I thought
that a subway platform
would be the safest place
to hide them.
Because it was underground.
I was ten.
And that's where you hid
the plans?
Yes.
Under Newark Penn Station?
I am sure of it.
Every major access point
to Manhattan
has an Observer checkpoint.
That includes train stations.
Okay, we have
to take out the guards.
Are they Observers
or Loyalists?
Both.
I don't even know
if we can get close enough
to effectively take them out
without being detected.
Well, we need
to create a diversion.
I think we're gonna need
a lot more than a diversion.
Peter.
I'm going to want
to get to
that rolling cabinet
in the amber.
Walter, there's nothing
in there
except lab equipment
and your Easy-Bake oven.
I'm not
after what's in it.
It's what's under it.
Astrif...
prepare the laser.
Walter, why won't you tell us
what's down there?
Because I'm not sure
that what's down there
is worth talking about.
I'm not sure what's left.
Here.
Use some of this.
All of you.
It's mentholatum.
Not as bad
as I thought.
Walter, is this
what I think this is?
My cold storage
of all the Fringe events
we ever encountered,
dormant for 21 years.
If we're going
to find a diversion
to get
into the railway station,
we'll find it here.
What do you suggest,
Walter?
There was a time
when we solved Fringe cases.
Now I think it's time
we created a few of our own.
So this is every Fringe event?
Documented and preserved
to the best of my ability.
Oh, look, Olivia,
my porcupine man.
You really had no idea
that he was doing any of this?
I wouldn't have slept at night
if I did.
Some secrets are meant
to be kept.
For two reasons--
number one:
Because they're mine.
And number two:
I have a healthy distrust
of the government.
These items
were safer with me.
Oh!
Put that down.
You'll Amber us.
It's an ambering device.
Put it down gently.
Hair trigger,
if I recall correctly.
There has got
to be a better option
for getting us
into that train station
than a portal that takes us
to another universe.
I suppose
you're right.
We'll have
to go through all this
to see what's still viable.
The answer is here somewhere.
Oh, my goodness.
What is it?
It's my old doughnut hole.
Jelly.
It's still spongy.
It's still good.
Why am I still here?
Two days ago,
you failed a security test.
That's why you're nervous.
So you are a recent graduate
of the Academy?
Yes.
And your date of induction?
April 25, 2033.
Were your parents
proud to see you in uniform
for the first time?
My parents
are deceased.
Did you think of them
during the ceremony?
I missed them being there
if that's what you mean, yes.
What was the weather like?
What?
That important day,
what's the weather?
It was sunny.
On April 25, 2033
in Boston,
rainfall began
approximately at 10:20 a.m.
And continued steadily
well into the evening.
You were never
at the Academy.
No, you're mistaken.
I was class 58693-A.
You are a member
of the resistance.
Someone forged
your paperwork
to be installed
in your position.
You cannot conceal it.
I can see it.
Right there.
What do you know
about the fugitives?
Where is Peter Bishop?
Where did he go?
Where are the fugitives
hiding?
You overheard Anil
say something?
What did you hear Anil say?
Forget about him
for a second.
I saw something else...
that interests me.
The Dove.
Who is the Dove?
Hmm?
What is his real name?
I don't know!
Nobody does.
What did you discover?
He is a low-level operative.
His information is limited.
I found bits and pieces,
but not everything.
We've heard the name "the Dove"
three times now.
What else?
When I said
the name "Peter Bishop,"
he recalled a moment
when he overheard Anil
mention a lab
in sector B.
I think
you know this
as the old Harvard University.
I thought
you would recognize it.
You had a relationship
with these fugitives
that I thought
we would call upon.
Now how did you know that?
That I had a relationship
with them?
Captain Windmark
told me.
He said he was going
to ask you about it.
He did not?
I knew them,
but that was
a long time ago.
According
to this man's knowledge,
they are in the lab.
I will make my report.
Pull.
Walter.
Technically this is a weapon
of mass destruction.
So is the mosquito
that carries the West Nile.
This will do beautifully.
A perfect delivery system.
Looks like there are
more Loyalists.
What was the count before?
Three, four.
Now it's seven.
It's not going to be easy
getting
into this subway station.
Where'd you get that?
I found it
at our old house
on Quincy Street.
I wanted
to remember things.
I don't know.
I just wanted to be there.
It made me feel closer
to you.
It was looted.
The entire block was.
Upstairs in your bedroom,
what used to be your bedroom,
I found what was left
of your old jewelry box.
And there was
this matchbox inside.
I shook it
and found this.
I figured
it had to be important
or you wouldn't have kept it.
How long
have you been wearing it?
Since I was 13.
You want it back?
No. No.
No, I want you
to keep it.
Let me see it.
You know your father used
to call this
"The bullet
that saved the world."
The lab's been compromised.
Peter.
What's wrong?
We need to go now.
Well, we're ready.
No, the Observers know
that we're in the lab.
How?
Who told you that?
Somebody I trust.
We don't have time.
We cannot leave the lab.
Without the tapes,
we have nothing.
Forget the blueprints.
Forget the rocks
from the mine.
Forget whatever is in the tomb.
None of it means anything
without the plan.
There goes the world.
The world ending.
Once they see we've been here,
we'll never be able
to set foot
in the lab again.
I have an idea.
Walter, we need
to re-Amber the lab.
There's nothing here.
It's just an ambered lab.
Control, the building
is secure.
1-6 heading back down.
Copy that. Confirm.
Return to base.
No one has been
in that lab.
The reading from the prisoner
was deceptive.
How is that possible?
Somehow she hid her thoughts
from us,
deceived our readings.
Perhaps others can as well.
Still on watch.
You're relieved then.
Perimeter.
Hi.
Perhaps you can help me.
I'm trying to get
to Kennebunkport, Maine.
Let me see
your travel authorization.
Of course. Thing is, I've been
driving around in circles.
I was hoping you might help me
with these directions.
I will handle this.
The thing is,
I'm a bit lost.
You electrocuted me.
Your authorization--
now.
Of course.
Here we are.
They're gonna meet us
around back.
Here we go.
All right, Walter.
You're up.
Where is it?
There.
Kilroy?
I drew that.
It must be in the vent.
There's a line.
It's got something heavy.
It's the tube.
Let's go.
Peter!
Unh!
There!
I'm in.
Go, go, go.
What's written on it, Walter?
It's some kind of physics.
It's beyond anything
I've ever seen.
I don't understand.
Well, Walter,
it's your handwriting,
so, even if it was wiped
from your mind,
you must have understood it
at some point.
Perhaps it was dictated
to me.
By September? You think
he gave you these equations?
I don't know.
Do you think you'll be able
to figure it out?
Don't you understand?
This is Greek to me,
except that I read Greek.
This is Aramaic to me.
Not the western dialect.
I do speak a little.
Walter?
I don't know what this is.
I'm sorry.
Okay, well, we should get back
to the lab.
Not yet.
Somebody wants to see you.
Agent Dunham.
Phillip.
It's good to see you,
Dr. Bishop.
Peter.
I asked her not to tell you
in case...
We were read.
When I heard
that you were back,
I tried not to,
but I had to see you.
Five years ago,
I got called
to a crime scene
outside the city,
and I saw Etta
for the first time.
And, even though she was
turned away from me,
I could have sworn
I was looking at you.
It wasn't until I told her
who I was
that she admitted the truth,
that she was your daughter.
Once I knew, I had her
transferred into my section.
I had a mind
I was gonna look after her,
but she taught me.
She recruited me
in the resistance,
taught me how to block them
from reading my thoughts.
How long did that take?
Nearly a year.
They used
an airborne toxin.
It hyperactivates
a protein
that generates scar tissue.
Barbaric.
What was their purpose here?
They took something
that was hidden inside.
What, we don't know.
Captain Windmark.
Yes.
One of our men died
holding this.
I think we're gonna be able
to find them.
HK pistols
with rechargeable power cells.
Pulse rifles,
motion sensors,
scent cones.
Anti-matter batons?
Fourth gen.
Delayed fuse.
Blast radius
of 100 meters.
And, once it's armed,
it can't be deactivated,
so when you use it, make sure
you don't stick around.
How on earth
did you get this stuff?
It wasn't simple.
Tell Anil he owes me.
Seeing you makes me realize
how much I miss Boston.
Maybe I'll put in
for a transfer.
It's all right.
I've apprehended them.
They found you.
How?
They put a tracker on us.
That loyalist
before we drove off.
You can't let 'em
find you here with us.
You won't make it by car.
Run.
Protect the plan
at all costs.
Peter!
Go!
Get out of here!
We can't stay here.
The far end.
Down there.
There.
They know we're in here.
Cover every entrance.
Walter, run.
I'll cover you.
Cover me
while I get to the stairs.
We've got to go back
for them.
We will.
We're gonna double back.
Ready?
Go!
Walter!
Go, go!
On your six.
Clear it, clear it.
Move, move!
Walter?
Peter?
Unh!
He bought the necklace
for you.
For what purpose?
I would like to know.
Love.
You never know
when to give up.
Etta.
No.
No, no, no.
Henrietta,
look at me, okay?
You're going to be okay.
Etta?
But we have to move you, okay?
No.
There's no point.
We're not gonna leave you here.
You have to.
You won't make it
with me.
I'll slow you down.
You have to leave.
Etta.
I love you so much.
I know.
No.
No, no.
I can't leave you.
Not again.
No. No.
Son, we have to go.
We're sweeping
buildings two and three now,
but there's no sign of them.
Love.
They would go back for her.
You were wrong.
The necklace.
We need to leave.
She's gone, son.
We have to go.
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org